Okay in step five,
we're going to enhance our HTML template
to use the ng-bootstrap pagination component.
So we'll add support on our template file
to actually reference that given component.
And recall from our previous video,
this pagination component has some parameters
and we'll actually go through all the details
of these parameters
and we'll actually implement them in this video
so you'll see them working first hand.
And you can always get details on these parameters
by going to the ng-bootstrap website.
All right, so here's a very basic example of
using that pagination component
in our template file.
So we have ngb-pagination
and we pass in those parameters.
And remember the component will generate
the links for pagination.
And we'll step through each one of these parameters here
to see exactly how they work.
So we'll start here with page.
So it's a special syntax here,
the square brackets parens page.
This is two-way data binding.
It's know as "banana in a box".
The square brackets means the box,
the parens means the banana. (chuckles)
So here we have a two-way data binding
between the HTML template
and the ProductListComponent.
So on the left-hand side,
we have page,
that's a parameter of ngb-pagination component
and then on the right-hand side,
we have thePageNumber,
that's a property of the ProductListComponent.
When the user clicks a page navigation link,
what happens in the background is that
in our TypeScript component,
thePageNumber property is updated
based on the user's action.
So for example,
if the use clicks four,
then thePageNumber is set to four.
So now going in the other direction,
if our TypeScript code updates thePageNumber
then the UI component is updated automatically.
So here this is basically a binding
from our TypeScript code
over to the HTML template
and so if we change the value of thePageNumber to,
say for example,
four in our TypeScript code
then the UI is updated
and the current page number is highlighted
in the user interface.
Let's look at another parameter here.
pageSize, so this is special angular syntax
for one-way data binding,
so square brackets.
So on the left-hand side,
pageSize is the parameter of the ngb-pagination component,
thePageSize is a property of the ProductListComponent.
If our TypeScript code updates thePageSize,
then the UI component is updated automatically.
And so base on this,
they'll change how many pages are listed
base on thePageSize.
And that's an example here of one-way data binding.
Alrighty, looking at collectionSize.
So if our TypeScript code updates theTotalElements
then the UI component is updated automatically.
So again, this will kind of determine
how this actual pagination controller's displayed
based on the collectionSize
or how many items are out there.
And again, this is an example here of one-way data binding.
The next parameter here is pageChange
and so this is for event-binding,
so for a pageChange event.
So when the user clicks a page navigation link
then they'll call the method listProducts.
So this gives us a chance to access information
from the database
based on the thePageNumber,
pageSize and so on,
return those items
and then update the actual template accordingly.
So this is basically how you get to show
a new page of products
based on the user actions.
Alrighty, so that's pretty much all of the development there
for the pagination component.
In the next set of videos,
we'll go ahead and write the code
and we'll get this set up.
So I'll see ya in the next video.